In the previous video, we already learn about
what is IP Address and what is subnetting.
And as I said, now we are going
to learn about subnetting.
But before that, we are going to learn about
Public IP Address and Private IP Address first.
So what is that? Public IP Address is
the IP Address that used in the internet.
For example is the IP Address of google,
facebook, youtube, twitter, and others.
All of that is using Public IP.
Let’s say here we have Internet, and here
we have some server, let’s say facebook.com,
youtube.com, google, and others. There is
many server that connected to the internet.
And all of this server is using Public IP Address
The main characteristic of Public IP Address
is that they are accessable from anywhere.
Let’s say we are in home, we absolutely can access
facebook.com, youtube.com, google.com and others.
Let’s say we are in the office, we
will also able to access facebook.com,
youtube.com, google.com and others.
And let’s say again we are in the vacation to
another city or another country. We will still
able to access all of that servers. Why? Because
all of that servers is using Public IP Address.
So remember that Public IP Address is
the IP Address that used in Internet,
the main characteristic of Public IP Address
is that they are accessable from anywhere.
Next, about Private IP Address. If Public
IP Address is IP that used in the Internet,
then Private IP Address is IP that used in the
local Network. Let’s say in the office we have six computers.
Absolutely each of this computer will
have an IP Address, we have IP for computer 1,
computer 2, computer 3, computer 4, computer
5, and also we have IP for computer 6.
And then all of these computer
will be connected to a switch.
From the switch will be connected to a router,
and from router will be connected to
Internet Service Provider or ISP. And finally
from ISP will be connected to Internet.
You need to pay attention on the IP address
of all PC. All of this IP Address is Private IP Address
The main characteristic of Private
IP Address, is that they are only accessable
from the network. We can’t access
this IP Address form another network.
So let’s say that this ISP has another client.
They have a router, they also
have a switch and some PC.
Well, all of this computer will not be able
to communicate with our computers.
Why? Because our computer is using Private IP
Address, and remember that Private IP Address
only accessable from the network it self, we can’t
access Private IP Address from another network.
So now we understand that Public IP Address is
used in the internet and accessable from anywhere.
While Private IP Address is used in the local
network and only accessable from the network it self.
And something that you need to know, is
that if you build a computer network,
make sure that we us Private IP Address. Where
Private IP Address Range is already defined.
Here is the range of Private IP Address.
First, we have 10.0.0.0 until 10.255.255.255.
this is the first range for Private IP Address.
Let’s say we have IP 10.1.1.1, this is Private IP,
why? Because this IP is included in this range.
Another example, let’s say we have IP
10.100.10.1, this is also Private IP Address.
But, if we have an IP Address
11.10.10.10, this is not Private IP Address,
why? Because this IP is
not included in this range.
If the IP is not Private IP Address,
so that IP is Public IP Address.
Okay, the second range is 172.16.0.0 until 172.31.255.255,
let’s say we have IP 172.16.10.10,
this is Private IP Address. Why? because
this IP is included in the second range.
Another example, let’s say we have IP 172.17.100.200,
this is also included in this range,
so this is also Private IP Address.
But If we have IP 172.35.1.10,
this is not Private IP Address,
because this IP is not included in the first range
or second range. So this is Public IP Address.
And finally, the last range for IP Private
is 192.168.0.0
until 192.168.255.255. For example we have IP
192.168.100.20, this is Private IP Address,
Why? because this IP is included
in the third range.
Another example, let’s say we have IP 192.10.10.10,
this is not Private IP Address. Why? because
this is not included in the first, second, or
third range, so this is Public IP Address.
Okay, so remember that we have three
range for Private IP Address.
And we need to make sure that we will use one
of this range in our local network.
I think enough for this video,
I hope you understand about Public IP Address and Private IP Address.
Thankyou for watching and see you on the next video!